Add rules for jdev (#1290)
xsf/xmpp.org: content/community/jdev-rules.md

---
Title: jdev Channel
Url: community/channels/jdev
---

## About the XMPP Developers Channel ("jdev")

> The XMPP Developers Channel is located at [jdev@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:jdev@muc.xmpp.org?join). It is a place primarily for developers of software following or aiming to follow XMPP standards (RFC 6120--6122, as well as XMPP Extension Proposals, and updated versions of the RFCs), to have civil and low-bar knowledge transfer, learning and support in the task of implementing the various pieces of the XMPP standard compendium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The XMPP Developers Channel is located at [jdev@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:jdev@muc.xmpp.org?join). It is a place primarily for developers of software following or aiming to follow XMPP standards (RFC 6120--6122, as well as [XMPP Extension Proposals](/extensions), and updated versions of the [RFCs](/rfcs)), to have civil and low-bar knowledge transfer, learning and support in the task of implementing the various pieces of the XMPP standard compendium.
```

## Code of Conduct

Like any growing community, the XMPP Developers Channel has a set of rules to govern the interactions, in order to make as many people as possible feel safe and welcome.

> Above all, the [Community Code of Conduct of the XMPP Standards Foundation](https://xmpp.org/extensions/xep-0458.html) (still under discussion, but unless stated otherwise in *this* document, the current experimental version applies nontheless) applies, called CoC hereafter. That means that behaviour which goes against the CoC is automatically not accepted.

Reviewer 2: nontheless -> nonetheless

For transgressions solely happening within the XMPP Developers channel, the channel admins are an acceptable first point of contact.

> **Note**: The CoC only applies to XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF) members and venues. It does not automatically apply to all members of all XMPP channels. Do not report misconduct in venues outside of the control of the XSF to this room or the XSF Conduct Team, unless an XSF member is involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The CoC only applies to XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF) [members](/community/membership) and venues. It does not automatically apply to all members of all XMPP channels. Do not report misconduct in venues outside of the control of the XSF to this room or the XSF Conduct Team, unless an XSF member is involved.
```

> **Note**: The CoC only applies to XMPP Standards Foundation (XSF) members and venues. It does not automatically apply to all members of all XMPP channels. Do not report misconduct in venues outside of the control of the XSF to this room or the XSF Conduct Team, unless an XSF member is involved.

Reviewer 3: Maybe a topic to explore elsewhere, but does the CoC apply to *any* XSF member *anywhere*? Or just when they act in quality of XSF member?

## On-Topicness

> The channel started out as a place for developers to work together to improve the state of XMPP software in general, encompassing topics such as software interoperability (as opposed to deployment interoperability; for the latter, the [Operators channel](operators-rules.md) is the better a place), reliability, security and standards edge cases. It can provide valuable information when just reading passively, but also when actively asking.

Reviewer 2: > is the better a place
is a better place?

Maybe it's an English idiom I don't know though.

> The channel started out as a place for developers to work together to improve the state of XMPP software in general, encompassing topics such as software interoperability (as opposed to deployment interoperability; for the latter, the [Operators channel](operators-rules.md) is the better a place), reliability, security and standards edge cases. It can provide valuable information when just reading passively, but also when actively asking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The channel started out as a place for developers to work together to improve the state of XMPP software in general, encompassing topics such as software interoperability (as opposed to deployment interoperability; for the latter, the [Operators channel](/community/channels/operators) is a better place), reliability, security and standards edge cases. It can provide valuable information when just reading passively, but also when actively asking.
```

In order to keep the signal-to-noise ratio useful for people listening in on the channel passively, it is helpful to keep off-topic discussions to a minimum. To give you an idea about what people expect from the channel, here is a non-exhaustive list of topics which fit into the scope of the channel:

* Discussion about tools for software developers specific to XMPP (e.g. XMPP test suites, test vectors, network simulation tools, XML linting, parsing, generation tools).
* Reaching out to implementors of different software to discuss interoperability issues or find a place to responsibly disclose security issues.
* Discussion of past security vulnerabilities in XMPP software.
* Discussion of the effects of implementation choices on the broader ecosystem.
* Asking questions about how specific pieces of a standard are meant to be interpreted.

Please note the FAQ for a suggestion for places to discuss specific adjacent topics!

### On-Topic induced Off-Topic

> Since some of the on-topic cases can quickly derail into off-topic when debates become ad-hominem. When debating controversial topics, the difference between an insult or judgement and a discussion is in the rationale.

Reviewer: First sentence sounds incomplete to me. Maybe better without starting with "Since"?

> You are irresponsible for storing chat logs without extra security.

If you find yourself unable to find a rationale which is technical and XMPP related, that is probably a good point to stop the interaction.

## Enforcement

As soon as the moderator team gains knowledge of behaviour in the channel which violates those rules and the offense is confirmed, the following actions may be taken against the offending user(s).

Sometimes, a swift action is necessary to restore order in the channel. For those cases, the channel admins can take the following actions at their discretion:

* One-time kick (serves as a warning).
* Temporary enforced removal from the channel (banning) for 1 day. This action should only be applied once to an entity before the Conduct Team is getting involved.

If the behaviour continues despite those measures or if the transgression is sufficiently excessive to warrant more strong action, the Conduct Team of the XSF should be invoked, as described in the CoC.

## FAQs

### I want to discuss something that is considered off-topic in this channel, where can I go?

> To discuss operating XMPP server software as well as deployment interoperability, there exists the [XMPP Operators channel](operators-rules.md) at [operators@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:operators@muc.xmpp.org?join). Discussion of XMPP Extension Proposals as well as the XMPP standard itself and matters concerning the XMPP Standards Foundation takes place in [xsf@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:xsf@muc.xmpp.org?join).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To discuss operating XMPP server software as well as deployment interoperability, there exists the [XMPP Operators channel](/community/channels/operators) at [operators@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:operators@muc.xmpp.org?join). Discussion of XMPP Extension Proposals as well as the XMPP standard itself and matters concerning the XMPP Standards Foundation takes place in [xsf@muc.xmpp.org](xmpp:xsf@muc.xmpp.org?join).
```
